# Megamicros broadcast server

The Megamicros Broadcast Server (MBS) is a server written in c++ that provides services to allow users to access signals generated by a remote Megamicros antenna.

## Contents

* [Installing](install/index.md)
* [Using](using.md)
* [C++ library](c++/index.md)

## Schemas

The server is based on the folloging libraries:

* nlohmann::json for accessing json files ans data serializing;
* websocketpp for networking;
* libusb-1.0 for data exchange between the antenna and PC controler;
* Megamicros_cpp library.

It is implemented as a class called ``MegamicrosBroadcastServer`` which manages two threads: the *connection thread* responsible for managing client connections and messages requests and the *action thread* whose role is to process client requests.


## Protocol

The server needs a communication protocol over the winsocket TCP/IP protocol. 
This protocol ensure connection, disconnection and messaging between client and server.
There are to ways of communicating with the server: messages and data.
Messages are *json* serialized text data messages while data are pure binary data.

Every request the client send to the server always takes the following form:

* opening a websocket connection (subscribing)
* receiving a positive server message response
* sending the message request
* obtaining a message response evently followed by data 
* closing the websocket connection


### Subscribing

When subscribing a client should received from the server a positive json response like this one:

``` json
{
    "request": "connection",
    "type": "status",
    "response": "OK"
}
```

meaning that the server received the *connection* request and accepted it.

??? Example "Exemple: connecting"

    Here is a Python example using the *websockets* library:

    ``` python
    import websockets
    import json

    async with websockets.connect( "ws://server_address.com:server_port" ) as websocket:
        response = json.loads( await websocket.recv() )
        if response['request'] == 'connection' and response['type'] == 'status' and response['response'] == 'OK':
            print( "Received positive answer from server" )
        else:
            raise Exception ( "Connection to server failed" )
    ```

### Quering

All you have to do then is to send your request(s) to the server and wait for its answers.
In the example bellow we ask the server to give us all its current parameters value:

??? Example "Example: quering parameters value"

    ``` python
    await websocket.send( json.dumps( {'request': 'parameters'} ) )
    response = json.loads( await websocket.recv() )
    if response['request'] == 'parameters' and response['type'] == 'response':
        print( f"Receiver parameters values are: {response['response]}" )
    else:
        raise Exception( f"Failed to get parameters from server: {response['message']}" ) 
    ```

Dropping the `with` statement means closing the connection, so you will have to reconnect to make further requests.

### Responses

Server responses to client requests are Json responses which have the following form:

``` json
{
    "request": "Reminder of the client's request",
    "type": "server response type: response|status",
    "response": "the server response according the type (ex: response for response type or error for status stype)",
    "message": "server message if the request failed",
    "code": "error code if the request failed"
}
```

### Remote Megamicros receiver handler

The server aims at giving you the total control of the remote Megamicros receiver.
More over, you can share with others the data comming from the antenna.
Other services are also available as saving data on H5 files, performing DOA, detecting events, and so on. 

That said, the server has to be driven with carre since there is only one receiver to share among many clients.
The *receiver handler* do the job. You can drive the remote Megamicros receiver by simply ordering the receiver handler:

* [Selftest](selftest.md) - perform the self-test procedure
* [Parameters](parameters.md) - get device parameters
* [Run](run.md) - run execution for multichannels recording



## Bibliography

* [C++ Asio library](https://think-async.com/Asio/asio-1.27.0/doc/)




